# TimeSeries
As part of my final project for this course, I've begun working on a time series project. At this point, I've selected two datasets, one seasonal and one non-seasonal, with the aim of showcasing the knowledge I've gained throughout the course. I plan to apply what I've learned to these datasets in order to demonstrate my understanding.


Seasonal:In this project, time series data was analyzed using various models, including AR(2), ARMA(2,1), and SARMA(3,3)(1,1) with a seasonal period of 12. The SARMA(3,3)(1,1) model was found to be the best fit with an AIC value of -54. The model was further evaluated using residual analysis techniques, including ACF plot, histogram, qq plot, Shapiro Wiki test, and Ljung-Box test. The results of these tests showed that the model was a good fit for the data. Finally, the model was used to forecast future values based on the original data. Overall, the results of this analysis suggest that the SARMA(3,3)(1,1) model is a suitable approach for modeling and forecasting the given time series data.


Non_Seasonal: In this project, time series data was analyzed using various models, including ARIMA(2,1,1), ARIMA(2,1,3), and ARIMA(2,1,3) was finilized. The ARIMA(2,1,3) model was found to be the best fit with lowest AIC value. The model was further evaluated using residual analysis techniques, including ACF plot, histogram, qq plot, Shapiro Wiki test, and Ljung-Box test. The results of these tests showed that the model was a good fit for the data. Finally, the model was used to forecast future values based on the original data. Overall, the results of this analysis suggest that the ARIMA(2,1,3) model is a suitable approach for modeling and forecasting the given time series data.
